【PG】139 CHAPTER  12 Collecting Things Together—Lists and Dictionaries

【PG】The keys()  method gives you a list of all the dictionary keys:

【PG】The values()  method gives you a list of all the values:

【PG】Other languages have things similar to Python dictionaries. They’re generally called 
associative arrays  (because they associate  keys and values to each other). Another term you’ll 
hear for them is hash tables .

【PG】Just like lists, the items in a dictionary can be any type, including simple types (int, float, 
string) or collections (lists or dictionaries) or compound types (objects). 
Yes, you can have dictionaries that contain other dictionaries, just like you can have lists of 
lists. Actually, that’s not entirely true. It is true for the values  in a dictionary, but the keys  are 
more restricted. 

【PG】Earlier we talked about mutable  versus immutable  types. Well, dictionary 
keys can only be immutable types (booleans, integers, floats, strings, and tuples). You can’t 
use a list or a dictionary as a key, because these are mutable types. 

【PG】I mentioned above that one of the things about dictionaries that’s different from lists is that 
dictionaries are unordered . Notice that even though Bob’s number was the third one we 
added to the dictionary, it was the first item when we displayed the contents of the 
dictionary. Dictionaries have no concept of order, so sorting a dictionary makes no sense. 
But sometimes you want to display the contents of a dictionary in some kind of order. 
Remember that lists can be sorted, so once you get a list of the keys, you can sort that and 
then display the dictionary in order of its keys. You can sort the list of keys using the 
sorted()  function, like this:

【PG】That’s the same sorted()  function you saw before for lists. If you think about it, this makes 
sense, because the collection of a dictionary’s keys is a list.

【PG】>>> phoneNumbers.keys()
['Bob', 'John', 'Mary', 'Jenny']
>>> phoneNumbers.values()
['444-4321', '555-1234', '555-6789', '867-5309']
>>> for key in sorted(phoneNumbers.keys()):
        prin t key, phoneNumbers[key]
    
Bob 444-4321
Jenny 867-5309
John 555-1234
Mary 555-6789

【PG】Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>