【PG】xviii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book would not be the same without Martin Murtonen’s lively and fun illustrations. His 
work speaks for itself about Martin’s creativity and talent. But what doesn’t show is how 
great he is to work with. It was a pleasure.

【PG】One day, I asked my friend and colleague Sean Cavanagh, “How would you do this in Perl?” 
Sean said, “I wouldn’t. I would use Python. ” So I took the plunge to learn a new program-
ming language. Sean answered many questions when I was learning Python and reviewed 
early drafts. He also created and maintains the installer. His help is much appreciated.

【PG】I would also like to thank the many people who reviewed the book during its development 
and helped prepare the manuscript: Vibhu Chandreshekar, Pam Colquhoun, Gordon 
Colquhoun, Dr. Tim Couper, Josh Cronemeyer, Simon Cronemeyer, Kevin Driscoll, Jeffrey 
Elkner, Ted Felix, David Goodger, Lisa L. Goodyear, Dr. John Grayson, Michelle Hutton, Horst 
Jens, Andy Judkis, Caiden Kumar, Anthony Linfante, Shannon Madison, Kenneth McDonald, 
Evan Morris, Prof. Alexander Repenning, André Roberge, Kari J. Stellpflug, Kirby Urner, and 
Bryan Weingarten

【PG】The final result is much better for their efforts.
WARREN  SANDE
I would like to thank Martin Murtonen for his exceptional caricature of me, my mom for 
letting me go on the computer when I was two years old and for coming up with the idea of 
writing a book, and, most importantly, my dad for all the effort he put into this book with 
me and showing me how to program.

【PG】Acknowledgments for the Second Edition
In updating Hello World! , many of the same people contributed who helped with the First 
Edition. In addition to those people listed previously, we’d like to thank those who helped 
review the Second Edition during its development: Ben Ooms, Brian T. Young, Cody 
Roseborough, Dave Briccetti, Elizabet Gordon, Iris Faraway, Mason Jenkins, Rick Gordon, 
Shawn Stebner, and Zachary Young. Thanks also to Ignacio Beltran-Torres and Daniel Soltis 
who did a careful technical proofread of the final manuscript shortly before it went into 
production.

【PG】We’d also like to thank all the folks at Manning who helped make this Second Edition of 
Hello World!  even better than the original.

Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>