【PG】CHAPTER  15 Modules
Here, the star ( *) means all. But she has to be careful. If there are any students with the same 
names from Stephen Leacock School as there are from John Young School, there will be 
confusion.
Whew!
At this point, the whole namespace thing might still be a little fuzzy. Don’t worry! It’ll 
become clearer as you do examples in later chapters. Whenever you need to import mod -
ules, I’ll explain exactly what you’re doing.

【PG】Standard modules
Now that you know how to create and use modules, do you always have to write your own 
modules? No! That’s one of the great things about Python.
Python comes with a bunch of standard modules to let you do things like find files, tell the 
time (or count time), or generate random numbers, among other things. Sometimes, people 
say Python has “batteries included, ” and that’s what they’re talking about—all of Python’s 
standard modules. This is known as the Python Standard Library .
Why do these things have to be in separate modules? Well, they don’t have to be, but the 
people who designed Python decided that it would be more efficient. Otherwise, every 
Python program would have to include every possible function. This way, you just include 
the ones you need.
Of course, some things (like print , for, and if-else ) are basic commands in Python, so you 
don’t need a separate module for them—they’re in the main part of Python.
If Python doesn’t have a module for something you want to do (like make a graphical 
game), there are other add-on modules that you can download, usually for free! We have 
included several of these with this book, and they were installed if you used the install pro -
gram on the book’s website. If not, you can always install them separately.

【PG】Let’s look at a couple of the standard modules.
Time
The time  module lets you get information from your computer’s 
clock, like the date and the time. It also lets you add delays to your 
programs. (Sometimes the computer does things too quickly, and 
you have to slow it down.)
The sleep()  function in the time  module is used to add a delay—
that is, to make the program wait and do nothing for a while. It’s