【PG】CHAPTER  16 Graphics
【PG】Locations—screen coordinates
If you want to draw or place something on the screen, you need to specify where on the 
screen it should go. There are two numbers: one for the x-axis (horizontal direction) and one 
for the y-axis (vertical direction). In Pygame, the numbers start at [0, 0] in the upper-left 
corner of the window. 

【PG】When you see a pair of numbers like [320, 240], the first number is horizontal, 
or the distance from the left side. The second number is vertical, or the 
distance down from the top. In math and programming, the letter x is often 
used for horizontal distance, and y is often used for vertical distance.

【PG】We made our window 640 pixels wide by 480 pixels high. If we wanted to put the circle in 
the middle of the window, we’d need to draw it at [320, 240]. That’s 320 pixels over from the 
left-hand edge and 240 pixels down from the top edge. Why 255? The range from 0 to 255 gives us 256 different 
values for each primary color (red, green, and blue). 

【PG】So, what’s special about that number? Why not 200 or 
300 or 500?
Two hundred and fifty-six is the number of differ -
ent values you can make with 8 bits. That’s all the 
possible combinations of eight 1s and 0s. Eight 
bits is also called a byte, and a byte is the 
smallest chunk of memory that has its own address. An address 
is the computer’s way of finding particular pieces of memory.

【PG】It’s like on your street. Your house or apartment has an 
address, but your room doesn’t have its own address. A house 
is the smallest “addressable unit” on the street. A byte is the 
smallest “addressable unit” in your computer’s memory.

【PG】They could have used more than 8 bits for each color, but the 
next amount that makes sense would be 16 bits (2 bytes), 
because it’s not very convenient to use only part of a byte. 
And it turns out that, because of the way the human eye sees 
color, 8 bits is enough to make realistic-looking colors. 
Because there are three values (red, green, blue), each with 8 
bits, that’s 24 bits in total, so this way of representing 
color is also known as “24-bit color.” It uses 24 bits for each 
pixel, 8 for each primary color.  

【PG】small
es
is the 
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>