【PG】234 Hello World!
【PG】event —happens. When an event does happen, they spring into action, doing whatever is 
necessary to handle  the event. 

【PG】A good example of this is the Windows operating system (or any other GUI). If you turn on 
your Windows computer, it will just sit there once it’s done booting up. No programs will 
start, and you won’t see the mouse cursor zipping around the screen. But if you start 
moving or clicking the mouse, things begin to happen. The mouse cursor moves on the 
screen, the Start menu pops up, or whatever.

【PG】The event loop
In order for an event-driven program to “see” events happening, it has to be “looking” for 
them. The program must constantly scan the part of the computer’s memory that’s used 
to signal when an event has happened. It does this over and over again, as long as the 
program is running. Back in chapter 8, you learned how programs do things over and over 
again—they use a loop . The special loop that keeps looking for events is called an event loop .
In the Pygame programs we have been making in the last two chapters, there was always a 
while  loop at the end. We said that this loop ran the whole time the program was running. 
That while  loop is Pygame’s event loop. (There’s the first piece of the puzzle about how the 
exit code works.)

【PG】The event queue
All these events happen whenever somebody moves or clicks the mouse or presses a key. 
Where do they go? In the last section, I said that the event loop constantly scans part of the 
memory. The part of memory where events are stored is called the event queue . 
The event queue is a list of all the events that have happened, in the order they happened. 

【PG】Event handlers
If you’re writing a GUI program or a game, the program has to know whenever the user 
presses a key or moves the mouse. Those presses, clicks, and mouse moves are all events , 
and the program needs to know what to do with them. It has to handle  them. A part of a 
program that handles a certain kind of event is called an event handler .The word queue is pronounced “cue.” In everyday use, it means 
a waiting line.
In programming, queue usually means a list of things that 
have arrived in a particular order or that will be used in a 
particular order.

【PG】Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>