【PG】Changing the button
There are two ways to change the button’s size or 
position in the window: drag it with the mouse, or 
change the Size or Position properties. Try both ways of 
moving and resizing the button to see how they work. 
To move the button with the mouse, click anywhere on 
the button and drag it to a new position. To resize it 
with the mouse, click one of the blue squares around 
the edge of the button (they are called handles ), and 
drag an edge or corner of the button to make it bigger 
or smaller. To resize it using the properties, click the little triangle next to the geometry
property, and it will expand to show the X, Y, Width , and Height  properties. Just type in 
different numbers to move or resize the button. 
You can also change the text that appears on the but -
ton. Right now the text is the same as the name of the 
button, but it doesn’t have to be. Let’s change it so the 
text on the button says I’m a Button! . In the Property 
Editor, scroll down until you find the property called 
text . Change the text to I’m a Button! . You can also 
change the button text by double-clicking the button 
and editing the text directly on the button. 
If you look over at the button on the form, it has now changed to say I’m a Button! . But the 
name of the widget (the objectName property) is still PushButton . That’s how you would 
refer to it in the code if you wanted to do something with the button.

【PG】Saving the GUI
Let’s save what we have so far. In PyQt, the description of the GUI is saved in a .ui file. This 
file has all the information about the window, menu, and widgets. This is the same 
information that was displayed in property windows on the right side of Qt Designer, and 
now you need to save it into a file for the PyQt program to use when it runs. 
To save the UI, go to the File menu and choose Save As , and give the file a name. Let’s call 
our GUI MyFirstGui . You’ll notice that the file extension is automatically set to .ui. So the UI 
will be saved as MyFirstGui.ui . Make sure you save it to the folder you want. By default, 
Designer will save it in the folder where its own files are, which is probably not what you 
want. Browse to the folder where you save your Python programs before you click Save .