【PG】Opening a file
Before you open a file, you need to know what you’ll be doing with the file: 
■If you’ll be using the file as input  (looking at what’s in the file without changing it), 
you’ll open the file for reading . 
■If you’ll be creating  a brand-new file or replacing  an existing file with something brand 
new, you’ll open the file for writing .
■If you’ll be adding  to an existing file, you’ll open the file for appending . (Remember from chapter 12 that append  means to add to something.)

【PG】When you open a file, you make a file object  in Python. (See, I told you that many things in 
Python are objects.) You make the file object by using the open()  function with the name of 
the file, like this:
The filename is a string , so it needs quotes around it. The 'r' part means you’re opening the 
file for reading. You’ll learn more about that in the next section.

【PG】It’s important to understand the difference between the file objec t and the filename . The file 
object  is what you’ll use inside the program to access the file. The filename  is what Windows 
(or Linux or Mac OS X) calls the file on the disk. 
You do the same thing with people. You have different names that you use in different 
places. If your teacher’s name is Fred Weasley, you probably call him Mr. Weasley. His friends 
probably call him Fred, and his computer username might be fweasley. With files, there’s a 
name that’s used by the operating system to store the file on disk (the filename), and there’s 
a name your program uses when working with the file (the file object). 
The two names—the name of the object and the name of the file—don’t have to be the 
same. You can call the object whatever you want. For example, if we have a text file with 
some notes in it that’s called notes.txt , we could do this:
Or we could do this:

【PG】Once you have opened the file and created the file object, you don’t need the filename any 
more. You do everything in the program using the file object.my_file = open('my_filename. txt','r')
notes = open('notes.txt', 'r')
some_crazy_s tuff = open("notes.txt", 'r')File object Filename
File object Filename
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>