【PG】344 Hello World!
Pick a card, any card!

【PG】With dice and coin tosses, we said that every toss has the same probability, because the 
coin (or die) has no memory. But that’s not true with cards. As you draw cards from the 
deck, there are fewer and fewer cards left (in most games, anyway). That changes the 
probability of drawing each one of the remaining cards.

【PG】For example, when you start with a full deck, the chances of drawing the 4 of Hearts is 1/52, 
or about 2 percent. This is because there are 52 cards in the deck, and only one 4 of Hearts. If 
you keep drawing (and haven’t drawn the 4 of Hearts yet), when you’re halfway through the 
deck, the chances of getting the 4 of Hearts are 1/26, or about 4 percent. By the time you reach 
the last card, if you still haven’t drawn the 4 of Hearts, the chances of drawing it are 1/1, or 100 
percent. It’s certain that you’ll draw the 4 of Hearts next, because it’s the only card left.

【PG】The reason I’m telling you all this is to show that, if we’re going to make a computer game 
using a deck of cards, we need to keep track of which cards have been removed from the 
deck as we go along. One good way to do this is with a list. We can start with a list of all 52 
cards in the deck and use the random.choice()  function to pick cards randomly from the 
list. As we pick each card, we can remove it from the list (the deck) using remove() . 

【PG】Shuffling the deck
In a real card game, we shuffle the deck, which 
means we mix up the cards so they’re in a 
random order. That way we can just take the top 
card, and it’ll be random. But with the 
random.choice()  function, we’re going to pick ran -
domly from the list anyway. We don’t have to take the 
“top” card, so there’s no point in “shuffling” the deck. We’ll 
just randomly pick a card from anywhere in the deck. This is like 
fanning out the cards and saying “Pick a card, any card!” That would be 
rather time-consuming to do for each person’s turn in a card game, but 
it’s very easy in a computer program.

【PG】A card object
We’re going to use a list to act as our “deck” of cards. But what about the cards themselves? 
How should we store each one? As a string? An integer? What things do we need to know 
about each card?

【PG】For card games, these are the three things we usually need to know about a card:
■Suit—Diamonds, Hearts, Spades, or Clubs.
■Rank —Ace, 2, 3, … 10, Jack, Queen, King.
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>