【PG】Take a Chance—Randomness 

If the deck runs out and no one can make a play, the game is over. In that case, both 
players get points for the other player’s remaining cards. 
You can play up to a certain point total, or just keep playing until you’re tired, and the 
one with the most points wins.

【PG】Modifying Card Objects 

The first thing we should do is modify some of our card objects a bit. The point values in 
Crazy Eights are mostly the same as what we had before, except for the 8, which is worth 50 
points instead of 8 points. We could change the __init__  method in our Card  class to make 
8s worth 50 points, but that would affect every other game that might use the cards
module. It would be better to make the change in the main program and leave the class 
definition alone. Here’s one way we could do it:

Here, before adding the new card to the deck, we check to see if it’s an 8. If it is, we set its 
value to 50.

【PG】Game Requirements 

Now we’re ready to start making the game itself. Here are some of the things our program 
will need to do:
■Keep track of the face-up card.
■Get the player’s choice of what to do (play a card or draw a card).
■If the player tries to play a card, make sure the play is valid:
■The card must be a valid card.
■The card must be in the player’s hand.
■The card must either match the rank or suit of the face-up card or be an 8.
■If the player plays an 8, ask for the new suit (and make sure the choice is a valid suit).
■Play the computer’s turn (more on that shortly).
■Determine when the game is over.
■Count up the points.

【PG】Creating the Deck 

In the rest of the chapter, we’ll go through these requirements one by one. Some of them 
will need just a line or two of code, and some will be a bit longer. For the longer ones, we’ll 
create functions that we can call from the main loop.

deck = []
for suit in range(1, 5):
    for rank in range(1, 14):
        new_card = Card(suit, rank)
        if new_card.rank == 8:
            new_card.value = 50
        deck.append(new_card)

Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>