【PG】352 Hello World!

【PG】This means we need to keep track of the active suit, because it might be different from the 
suit that’s showing. We can use a variable, active_suit , to do this:
Whenever a card is played, we’ll update the active suit, and when a player plays an 8, he’ll 
choose the new active suit.

【PG】The player’s turn
When it’s the player’s turn, the first thing we need to do is get his choice of what to do. He 
can play a card from his hand (if possible) or draw from the deck. If we were making a GUI 
version of this program, we’d have the player click the card he wanted to play, or click the 
deck to draw. But we’re making a text-based version of the program, so he’ll have to type in 
a choice, and then we’ll have to check what he typed and figure out what he wants to do 
and whether that input is valid. 

【PG】To give you an idea of what kind of input the player will need to provide, we’ll look at a 
sample game. The player’s input is in bold :active_sui t = card.sui t
Crazy Eigh ts
Your hand: 4S, 7D, KC, 10D, QS    Up Card:  6C
What would you like to do?  Type a card name or "Draw" to take a card:  KC
You played the KC (King of Clubs)
Compu ter plays 8S  (8 of spades) and changes sui t to Diamonds
Your hand:  4S, 7D, 10D, QS   Up Card:  8S    Sui t:  Diamonds
What would you like to do?  Type a card name or "Draw" to take a card: 10D
You played 10D (10 of Diamonds)
Compu ter plays QD (Queen of Diamonds)
Your hand:  4S, 7D QS   Up card:  QD
What would you like to do?  Type a card name or "Draw" to take a card: 7D
You played 7D (7 of Diamonds)
Compu ter plays 9D (9 of Diamonds)
Your hand:  4S, QS   Up card: 9D
What would you like to do?  Type a card name or "Draw" to take a card: QM
That is no t a valid card.  Try again:  QD
You do no t have that card in your hand.  Try again: QS
That is no t a legal play.  You mus t match sui t, ma tch rank, play an 8, or draw a card
Try again: Draw
You drew 3C
Compu ter draws a card
Your hand:  4S, QS, 3C   Up card:  9D
What would you like to do?  Type a card name or "Draw" to take a card: Draw