【PG】CHAPTER  24 Computer Simulations
The force of the engines depends on how much fuel we’re burning. Sometimes it’ll be 
greater than the force of gravity, sometimes less. When the engines are off, their force is 0, 
and we’re left with only the force of gravity.
To get the total or net force on the spacecraft, we just add the two forces. Because they’re in 
opposite directions, one will be positive and one will be negative. 
Once we have the net force on the spacecraft, we can figure out its speed and position with 
a formula. 

【PG】Our simulation will have to keep track of the following things:
■The spacecraft’s height above the Moon, and its velocity and acceleration.
■The mass of the spacecraft (which changes as we use up fuel).
■The thrust, or force, of the engines. The more thrust we use, the faster we’ll 
burn fuel.
■The amount of fuel on the spacecraft. As we burn fuel with our thrusters, the 
spacecraft will get lighter, but if we run out of fuel, there will be no more thrust.
■The force of gravity on the spacecraft. That depends on the size of the Moon, and
the mass of the spacecraft and fuel.

【PG】Pygame returns
We’ll use Pygame again to make this simulation. The Pygame clock tick will be our unit of 
time. For every tick, we’ll check the net force on the spacecraft and update the height, 
velocity, acceleration, and fuel remaining. Then we’ll use that information to update the 
graphics and text.
Because the animation is very simple, we won’t use a sprite for the spaceship. But we’ll use 
one for the throttle (the grey rectangle), because that makes it easy to drag it with the 

【PG】The word velocity means almost the same thing as speed, except that 
velocity includes a direction, and speed doesn’t. For example, “fifty 
miles an hour” describes a speed, while “fifty miles an hour due north” 
describes a velocity. Many people use the word speed when they really 
mean velocity , and vice versa. In our program, we need to know 
whether the spaceship is going up or down, so we will use velocity.
Acceleration means how fast the velocity is changing. Positive 
acceleration means the velocity is increasing, and negative acceleration 
means the velocity is decreasing.

【PG】Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>