【PG】Hello World!

【PG】In our Pygame programs, we have used both Pygame’s time.delay  and clock.tick
functions to control the animation speed or frame rate. We also used get_fps()  to 
check how fast the animation was running, which is a way of measuring time (the 
average time for each frame). 

【PG】So far, we have always kept track of time while the program was running, but sometimes 
you need to keep track of time even when the program is not running. If you made a Virtual 
Pet program in Python, you wouldn’t want to leave it running all the time. You’d want to 
play with it for a while, and then stop and come back to it later. While you were away, you’d 
expect your pet to get tired or hungry, or to go to sleep. So the program needs to know 
how much time has passed since the last time it ran.
One way to do this is for the program to save a little piece of information—the current 
time—to a file just before it shuts down. Then, next time it starts up, it can read the file to 
get the previous time, check the current time, and compare the two to see how much time 
has passed since the program last ran.

【PG】Python has a special kind of object for 
working with times and dates. You’re going 
to learn a bit about Python’s date and time 
objects in the next section.

【PG】Time objects
Python’s date and time object classes are defined in their own datetime  module. The 
datetime  module has classes for working with dates, times, and the difference or delta
between two dates or times.
The first kind of object we’ll use is a datetime  object. (Yes, the class has the same name as 
the module.) The datetime  object includes the year, month, day, hour, minute, and second. 
You create one like this (follow along in interactive mode):

【PG】When you save the current time to a 
file for reading back later, that’s 
called a timestamp . 

【PG】The word delta means “difference.” It’s a letter of the Greek 
alphabet, and it looks like this: ∆ (a triangle).
Letters of the Greek alphabet are often used in science and 
math as a shorthand for certain quantities. Delta is used for 
a difference between two values. 

【PG】>>> impor t datetime
>>> when = da tetime.da tetime(2012, 10, 24, 10, 45, 56)
 Module name Class name
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>