【PG】371 CHAPTER  24 Computer Simulations

【PG】Notice how the time doesn’t just have seconds, it has fractions of a second:
On my computer, the last three digits will always be 0 because my operating system’s clock 
only goes to milliseconds (thousandths of a second). But that’s plenty precise enough for me!

【PG】It’s important to know that, although it looks like a float, the seconds are actually stored as 
a number of seconds (an integer) and a number of microseconds (an integer): 44 seconds 
and 343,000 microseconds. To make this into a float, you need a little formula. Assuming 
you have a time  object called some_time , and you want the number of seconds as a float, 
here’s what the formula looks like:

【PG】The float()  function is used to make sure you don’t 
get caught by the integer-division gotcha.

【PG】You can use the now()  method and a timedelta
object to test your typing speed. The program in 
listing 24.2 displays a random message, and the 
user has to type the same message in. The 
program times how long it takes to type it in and 
then calculates the typing speed. Give it a try.

impor t time, da tetime, random    
messages = [
    "Of all the trees we could've hi t, we had to ge t one that hits back." ,
    "If he doesn' t stop trying to save your life he's going to kill you." ,
    "It is our choices that show wha t we truly are, far more than our abili ties.",
    "I am a wizard, no t a baboon brandishing a s tick.",
    "Grea tness inspires envy, envy engenders spi te, spi te spawns lies." ,
    "In dreams, we en ter a world that's en tirely our own." ,
    "It is my belief that the truth is generally preferable to lies." ,
    "Dawn seemed to follow midnigh t with indecen t has te."
    ]

【PG】prin t "Typing speed test. Type the following message. I will time you."  
time.sleep(2)
prin t "\nReady..."                                                       
time.sleep(1)                                                            
prin t "\nSe t..."                                                         
time.sleep(1)                                                            
prin t "\nGo:"                                                            

【PG】44.343000 seconds_floa t = some_ time.second + some_ time.microsecond / floa t(1000000)

【PG】Listing 24.2 Measuring time differences—typing speed test
Uses time module for 
the sleep() function
Uses time module for 
the sleep() function
Prints instructions
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>