【PG】Hello World!

【PG】To add a toolbar, right-click the main window and 
select Add Toolbar . This creates the toolbar at the 
top of the window, but it will be very small. Find 
the toolbar in the Object Inspector, click it, and 
then look in the Property Editor for the 
minimumSize  property. Set the minimum size
to 100  for width and 50 for height.

【PG】To add actions (icons) to the toolbar, click the 
Action Editor  tab at lower right in Qt Designer. 
Right-click anywhere in the Action Editor pane, 
and pick New. You’ll get a dialog box for adding a 
new action. The only thing you have to type in is 
the Text , and Qt Designer will fill in the object 
name. Then find the little box in the middle with 
three dots (…), and click the down-arrow to the 
right of it. Pick Choose File , and pick the image file 
you want to use for the toolbar button.

【PG】There’s one last step to adding the new toolbar icon. Once you’ve created the new action, 
you’ll see it in the list in the Action Editor. Now you have to drag it onto the toolbar. When 
you do that, the graphic you picked for the new action will appear as a new icon on the 
toolbar. Qt Designer will automatically scale the image so it fits on the toolbar.

【PG】The health meters are a widget type called Progress Bar . The main graphic is a Push Button
(like we have used before) with its properties set in a certain way so it doesn’t look like a 
regular button, but instead displays an image. 
The extra bits of text are Label  widgets.

【PG】You can create a GUI like this using the PyQt Designer. Or you can load the one we made 
(from the examples folder) into Qt Designer and examine the widgets and their properties.

【PG】The algorithm
To be able to write the code for the Virtual Pet program, we need to be more specific about 
the behavior of the pet. Here’s the algorithm we’ll use:
■
We’ll divide the pet’s “day” into 60 parts, which we’ll call ticks . Each tick will be 
5 seconds of real time, so the pet’s “virtual day” will be 5 minutes of our time.

Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>