【PG】19 CHAPTER  2 Remember This: Memory and Variables
【PG】#!/bin/envpython#Paginateatextfile,addingaheaderandfooterimportsys,time,string#Ifnoargumentsweregiven,printahelpfulmessageiflen(sys.argv)!=2:print'Usage:pyprintfilename'sys.exit(0)class#
Incrementthepagecount,andresetthelinecountself.header_written=1;self.count=1;#!/bin/envpython#Paginateatex
ift
el,addingaheaderandfooterimportsys,time,string
I#
fnoargumentsweregiven,printahelpfulmessega
ilf
en(sys.argv)!=2:print'Usage:pyprin
sft
lef.page=self.page+1PrinterFormatter:self.header_written=0def#Incrementthepagecount,andresetthelinecount

【PG】Thinking like a programmer
When you assign a value to a name (like 
assigning the value “Mr. Morton” to Teacher), 
it is stored in memory and is called a variable . 
In most programming languages, we say you 
store a value in a variable.
But Python does things a little
differently from most other computer
languages. Instead  of storing values in 
variables,  it’s more like putting names 
on values .
Some Python programmers say that 
Python doesn’t have “variables”—
it has “names” instead. But they behave 
pretty much the same way. This is a book 
about programming (that just happens to use 
Python), not a book only about Python. So we 
will use the terms variable, name,  or 
variable name when talking about a Python 
name. It really doesn’t matter what you 
call them, as long as you understand 
how variables behave and how to use 
them in your programs.
By the way, Guido van Rossum, the 
person who created Python, says in his 
Python tutorial: “The ‘=’ sign is used 
to assign a value to a variable.” So I 
guess he thinks Python 
has variables!

【PG】A clean way to store things
Using names in Python is like going to a 
dry cleaner… Your clothes are placed on a 
hanger, your name is attached, and they 
are put on a big revolving hanger-trolley. 
When you go back to pick up your clothes, 
you don’t need to know exactly where they 
are stored on the big hanger-trolley. You 
just give the person your name, and they 
return your clothes. In fact, your clothes 
might be in a different spot than when you 
brought them in. But the dry cleaner keeps 
track of that for you. All you need is 
your name to retrieve your clothes. 
Variables are the same. You don’t need 
to know exactly where in memory the infor -
mation is stored. You just need to use the 
same name as when you stored it.
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>