【PG】442 Hello World!

【PG】You should be able to see each rectangle appear individually, because we have slowed 
down the program and are refreshing the display after each rectangle is drawn. If you 
do this to the sine wave programs, you can see each point in the sine wave being 
plotted.

【PG】Chapter 17: Sprites and Collision Detection
Test your knowledge
1Rect collision detection means detecting when two graphical objects are touching or 
overlapping by using a rectangle around the objects.
2Pixel-perfect collision detection uses the true outline of the graphical object to do 
collision detection. Rect collision detection uses a rectangle around the object to 
determine collisions. Pixel-perfect collision detection is more accurate and realistic, 
but it also takes more code, which slows things down a bit.
3You can keep track of a number of sprite objects together by using either a regular 
Python list or a Pygame Sprite group.
4You can control the speed of animation (frame rate) in your code either by adding 
delays between each frame or by using pygame.time.Clock  to get a specific frame 
rate. You can also change how far (how many pixels) the object moves in each frame.
5Using the delay method is less accurate because it doesn’t take into account how long 
the code itself takes for each frame, so you don’t know exactly what frame rate you’ll 
get.
6You can find out what frame rate your program is running at by using pygame.time.Clock.get_fps() .

【PG】Chapter 18: A New Kind of Input—Events
Test your knowledge
1Two kinds of events that a program can respond to are keyboard events and mouse 
events.
2The piece of code that deals with an event is called an event handler .
3Pygame uses the KEYDOWN  event to detect keys being pressed.
4The pos attribute tells you where the mouse is located when the event happens.
5To get the next available event number for user events, use pygame.USEREVENT .
6To create a timer, use pygame.time.set_timer() .
7To display text in a Pygame window, use a font  object.

Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>