【PG】443  APPENDIX  C Answers to Self-Test Questions
【PG】8These are the three steps to use a font object: 
■Create a font object.
■Render the text, creating a surface.
■Blit this surface to the display surface.

【PG】Try it out
1Why does the ball behave strangely when it hits the side of the paddle instead of the 
top? Because you have a collision, so the code tries to reverse the ball’s y-direction 
(make it go up instead of down). But because the ball is coming in from the side, it’s 
still “colliding” with the paddle, even after reversing direction. The next time through 
the loop (one frame later), it reverses direction again, so it’s going down again, and so 
on. A simple way to fix this is to always set the ball to go “up” (a negative y-speed) 
when it collides with the paddle. It’s not perfect, because it means even if the ball hits 
the side of the paddle, it will bounce up—not too realistic! But it solves the problem of 
the ball bouncing around in the paddle. If you want a more realistic solution, it will 
require a bit more code. You would probably need to add something where you check 
which edge of the paddle the ball has collided with before “bouncing” it.

2An example of some code that adds randomness to the program is posted on the web 
site as TIO_CH18_2.py .

【PG】Chapter 19: Sound
Test your knowledge
1Types of files used for storing sound include Wave ( .wav ), MP3 ( .mp3 ), Ogg Vorbis 
(.ogg ), and Windows Media Audio ( .wma ).
2The pygame.mixer  module is used for playing music.
3You set the volume for Pygame sound objects using the set_volume()  method of each 
sound object.
4You set the volume of background music using pygame.mixer.music.set_volume() . 
5To make music fade out, use the pygame.mixer.music.fadeout()  method. Use the 
number of milliseconds (thousandths of a second) of fade time as an argument. For 
example, pygame.mixer.music.fadeout(2000)  will fade out the sound in 2 seconds.

【PG】Try it out
1The code for a number-guessing program with sound is on the web site, as 
TIO_CH19_1.py .
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>