【PG】62 Hello World!

【PG】impor t random, easygui
secre t = random.randin t(1, 99)        
guess = 0
tries = 0
easygui.msgbox( """AHOY!  I'm the Dread Pira te Rober ts, and I have a secre t!
It is a number from 1 to 99.  I'll give you 6 tries.""" )
while guess != secre t and tries < 6:
    guess = easygui.in tegerbox( "Wha t's yer guess, ma tey?")  
    if not guess: break                                     
    if guess < secre t:                                       
        easygui.msgbox( str(guess) + " is too low, ye scurvy dog!" )
    elif guess > secre t:                                          
        easygui.msgbox( str(guess) + " is too high, landlubber!" )
    tries = tries + 1       
if guess == secre t:                                                    
    easygui.msgbox( "Avas t! Ye go t it!  Found my secre t, ye did!" )    
else:                                                            
    easygui.msgbox( "No more guesses!  The number was " + str(secre t)) 

【PG】You still haven’t learned how all the parts of this program work, but type it in and give it a 
try. You should see something like this when you run it:

【PG】We’ll be learning about if, else , and elif  in chapter 7, and while  in chapter 8. We’ll learn 
about random  in chapter 15, and we’ll use it a lot more in chapter 23.

【PG】Other GUI pieces
EasyGui has a few other GUI pieces available, including a choice box that lets you pick 
multiple choices (instead of just one), and some special dialog boxes for getting filenames 
and so on. But the ones we have looked at are enough for now.

【PG】EasyGui makes generating some simple GUIs very easy, and it hides a lot of the complexity 
that is involved in GUIs so you don’t have to worry about it. Later on, we’ll look at another 
way to make GUIs that gives you a lot more flexibility and control.

【PG】If you want to find out more about EasyGui, you can go to the EasyGui home page at 
easygui.sourceforge.net .

【PG】Listing 6.5 Number-guessing game using EasyGui
Picks a secret 
number
Gets the player’s guess
Allows up to 
6 guesses
Uses up one try
Prints 
message at 
end of game
Download from Wow! eBook <www.wowebook.com>