【PG】第 6章　GUI——图形用户界面
默认输入
有时用户输入信息时， 可能会期望得到某个答案， 或者有一个很常见或最可能
输入的答案。 这 称为默认值（default） 。 这个最常见的答案可以由你为用户自动输入，
这样用户就不用再键入了。有了默认值，只有当用户有不同的输入时才有必要键入。

【PG】要在一个输入框中放入默认值，可以按照代码清单 6-4修改你的程序 。
代码清单 6-4　如何建立默认参数
现在运行这个程序时 ，输 入框中已经输入了“Vanilla” （香草） 。可以把它删掉，
再输入你想要的内容， 不 过如果你最喜欢的口味确实是香草， 就不用再键入任何内
容，只需点击 OK 。

【PG】数字呢
如果想在 EasyGui中输入一个数， 完全可以先通过输入框得到一个字符串， 然
后使用int()或者ﬂoat()由这个字符串创建一个数（就像第 4章中的做法一样） 。
EasyGui还提供了一种整数框 （ integer box ，integerbox ） ，可以用它来输入整
数。还可以对所输入的数设置一个下界和上界。
不过，整 数框不允许输入浮点数（ 小数） 。要输入小数， 必须先通过输入框得到
字符串，然后再使用 ﬂoat()转换这个字符串。

【PG】6.5　再看猜数游戏……
第1章中，我创建了一个简单的猜数程序。 下面再来完成这个程序， 不过这一
次我们要使用 EasyGui完成输入和输出 。代码清单 6-5显示了这个程序的代码。
import random, easygui
secret = random.randint(1, 99)        
guess = 0
tries = 0
easygui.msgbox("""AHOY!  I'm the Dread Pirate Roberts, and I have a secret !
It is a number from 1 to 99.  I'll give you 6 tries.""" )
while guess != secret and tries < 6:    guess = easygui.integerbox("What's yer guess, matey?")
    if not guess: break                                     
    if guess < secret:                                       
        easygui.msgbox(str(guess) + " is too low, ye scurvy dog!")
    elif guess > secret:                                          
        easygui.msgbox(str(guess) + " is too high, landlubber!")
    tries = tries + 1       
if guess == secret:                                                        easygui.msgbox("Avast! Ye got it!  Found my secret, ye did!")    
else:                                                            
    easygui.msgbox("No more guesses!  The number was " + str(secret))

【PG】选一个秘密数
得到玩家猜的数代码清单 6-5　使用 EasyGui 的猜数游戏

【PG】Hello World!
import easygui
flavor = easygui.enterbox("What is your favorite ice cream flavor?")
easygui.msgbox ("You entered " + flavor)
When you run it,
you should see something like this:
And then, when you type in your favorite flavor and click OK, it’ll be displayed in the
message box, just like before.
This is just like raw_input(). It gets text (a string) from the user.

【PG】Default input
Sometimes when a user is entering information, there is a certain answer that is expected,
common, or most likely to be entered. That is called a default . You might be able to save the
user some typing by automatically entering the most common answer for her. Then, she’d
only have to type an answer if she had a different input.
To put a default in an enter box, change your program to look like the one in listing 6.4.
import easygui
flavor = easygui.enterbox("What is your favorite ice cream flavor?",                           default = 'Vanilla')
easygui.msgbox ("You entered " + flavor)
Now, when you run it, “Vanilla” is already entered in the enter box. You can delete it
and enter anything you want, but if your favorite flavor is vanilla, you don’t have to type
anything, just click OK.

【PG】What about numbers?
If you want to enter a number in EasyGui, you can always use an enter box to get a string,
and then create a number from it using int() or float() (as we did in chapter 4).